# Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Command Reference](#commandRef)

# Overview<a name="overview"></a>

This is a standalone powershell module intended to simplify the local setup of SSL Certificate Authentication in ASP.Net projects.

## What it does

- Creates a new local Certificate Authority (and optionally imports it into the correct certificate store)
- Creates a client certificate signed by the certificate authority (and optionally imports it into the correct store)
- Unlocks the correct config section in applicationhost.config needed to enable client certs in your project(s)
- Injects boilerplate into your web.config to enable client certificate authentication

## What it doesn't do 

- Create certificates suitable for production use
- Set up [Client Certificate Mapping Auth](https://www.iis.net/configreference/system.webserver/security/authentication/iisclientcertificatemappingauthentication)

# Installation<a name="installation"></a>

## Quick way

```powershell
(new-object Net.WebClient).DownloadString("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grrizzly/ezcert/master/install.ps1") | iex
```

(You are encouraged to look at the installation script before running it!)

## Manual way

1. Go to the [releases page](https://github.com/grrizzly/ezcert/releases) 
1. Download `package.zip` associated with the version you want to install
1. Unzip the contents into your `~\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules` folder, in a new folder named "ezcert"
1. Kill your current terminal session and start a new one.

# Usage<a name="usage"></a>

This module adds four single-purpose commands for various setup tasks, and one "quick" command that abstracts the normal flow of commands needed to set up a new project.

After installing, the easiest way to get started is by starting a new powershell session and doing the following:

```powershell
cd <yourProjectFolder>
Initialize-LocalClientCerts
```

This command will guide you through the setup process. It can be run again with other projects if necessary.

For more control over the commands, see the [Command Reference](#commandRef) below.

## Playing nicely with others

Currently, there are two main ways you can utilize this module when you need the setup working on more than one computer:

- Check the Certificate Authority, client certificate, and the web.config update into source control
- Use the commands as part of a local provisioning process, and only check in the web.config update.

Each approach has pros and cons:

### Certs in source control

**Pros**
- Other developers or provisioning tools do not need to depend on ezcert.

**Cons**
- If either of the certificates expire (which they will in 2 years with this library), it's suddenly your team's problem, not just your own
- Certificates must be installed either manually or through a `Import-PfxCertificate`
- Configuration section must be unlocked manually
- CA ambiguity across multiple projects using ezcert. 
- Checking in the default generated .pfx files, which include a private key and are protected with a well-known password, could accidentally be used in a non-local environment. 
- pfx files are not really source code. 

### Certs as a local artifact, generated by ezcert

**Pros**
- Scriptable. Teams have more control over how certificates get generated 
- Automated initialization of `applicationhost.config`, usually not found in source control
- Can be integrated into a Vagrant provisioning script for a turnkey development environment.

**Cons**
- ezcert must be a local dependency for all developers. 
- Fully automated setup can obfuscate how Client Certificate authentication actually works

## Doing it your own way

Certainly, these are not the only two ways of using this module. For instance, you could use one "artifact" CA across all projects and check client certificates in. One reason to do this might be for doing integration tests around authentication. 

# Contributing<a name="contributing"></a>

If you have any suggestions for improvement, or are interested in adding new features, open an issue. We will do our best to respond in a timely fashion. We especially appreciate any security tips that ensure a minimum level of security suitable for local development.

Pull requests are welcome. In lieu of a formal styleguide, care should be taken to maintain the style of existing code.

#### Developing locally

Building the ezcert executable requires Visual Studio to be installed. Only tested with 2015 Pro, but it should work on all of the more recent versions.

To build and package the module, run:

```powershell
cd <repo-directory>
.\package.ps1
```

This will create an `artifacts` folder and a `package.zip` file containing the same contents. The contents of the `artifacts` folder can be copied to `~\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\ezcert` for local testing. The `package.zip` is used as the release artifact of the same name.

To run the tests, first install [Pester](https://github.com/pester/Pester). When you're finished, open a new powershell session and run:

```powershell
cd <repo-directory>\powershell
Invoke-Pester
```


# Command Reference<a name="commandRef"></a>

## `Initialize-LocalClientCerts`

Creates and installs a default Certificate Authority, issues/installs a client cert using that authority, optionally unlocks the `<access>` element in appropriate `applicationhost.config` (default `Y`), and optionally injects boilerplate into your web.config (default `N`).

This is usually the best choice for simple projects, or if you're trying this library out for the first time.

### Options:
 
- `-Auto {$true | $false}`: When enabled, does not prompt the user for information and instead uses the default options. Note that this means it will not run in interactive mode. Defaults to `$false`. You are highly encouraged to leave this set to `$true` the first time you run `Initialize-LocalClientCerts`, as it give you a better understanding of what actually happens when this command is run.

## `New-LocalCA`

Creates and optionally installs a Certificate Authority (CA). Provides an exported .pfx containing the public and private key.

When using the defaults, this command will skip creation if a certificate with the same CN (`localCA`) is found in `Cert:\LocalMachine\Root`. If something goes wrong and you want to regenerate the default CA, delete any cert(s) named `localCA` in your Local Machine - Trusted Root Certification Authorities store.

### Options:

- `-Name [string]`: The [Common Name](https://support.dnsimple.com/articles/what-is-common-name/) to add to the certificate. Defaults to `localCA`. Many guides indicate that this should match a domain, but this isn't a hard requirement. 
- `-Password [string]`: The password used to protect the private key. Defaults to `password`. 
- `-OutputPath [string]`: The full path to save the .pfx export in. Defaults to `$PWD\$Name.pfx`
- `-AutoImport [bool]`: Indicates whether to automatically import the certificate into your Local Machine's Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store. Defaults to `$true`. Note that the imported CA can also be exported using the password provided by the `Password` param. Also note that this will attempt to launch an elevated prompt, so make sure your user can elevate to Administrator privileges.

## `New-LocalClientCert`

Creates and optionally installs a client certificate using a given CA. 

If attempting to use the default CA and it does not exist, it will be created.

### Options:

- `-Name [string]`: The Common Name for the certificate. Defaults to `clientCertificate`.
- `-Password [string]`: The password used to protect the private key. Defaults to `password`.
- `-OutputFileName [string]`: The name of the file to save the .pfx export in. Defaults to `clientCertificate.pfx`.
- `-AutoImport [bool]`:  Indicates whether to automatically import the certificate into your user's Personal certificate store. Defaults to `$true`.
- `-UseDefaultCa [bool]`: Looks for an existing CA in your Local Machine's trusted store matching the default CA's name (`localCA`). If found, it will use this CA to issue the client certificate.
- `-CaPath [string]`: The path to a custom CA if not using the default. 
- `-CaPassword [string]`: The password for the custom CA if not using the default.

## `Unlock-AppHostSecuritySection`

Updates an `applicationhost.config` file, changing the `<section name="access">` element's `overrideModeDefault` property to `Allow`, enabling applications using this config to specify their own SSL configuration.

### Options:

- `-Path [string]`: The path to the `applicationhost.config` file. If not provided, this command will, starting in the current directory, look for a file at `.vs\config\applicationhost.config`, traversing upwards until it hits the root path. If no such file exists, this command checks for the global IISExpress configuration, located at `~\Documents\IISExpress\config\applicationhost.config`. When no suitable file is found, it will throw an error.

## `Initialize-ClientCertConfig`

Updates a `web.config` file, adding in the basic boilerplate to enable client certificate authentication for a particlar project. Specifically, it adds the following subtree to `<system.webServer>`:

```xml
<security>
    <access sslFlags="Ssl,SslRequireCert,SslNegotiateCert" />
</security>
```

Tips:

- To make client certificate authentication optional, remove the `SslRequireCert` flag from the attribute value.
- If you would like to only enable client certificate authentication for part of your application, consider moving the element into a separate `<location>` element, e.g.

```xml
<location path="services">
  <system.webServer>
    <security>
      <access sslFlags="Ssl,SslNegotiateCert,SslRequireCert" />
    </security>
  </system.webServer>
</location>
```

### Options:

- `-Path [string]`: The path to the `web.config` file. If not provided, this command will, starting in the current directory, search for a `web.config` file, traversing upward until it reaches the drive root. It will throw an error if no file is found.
